[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: I showed
you the complex way,
the way everybody's been
trying to do it for 20 years.
I'm now gonna perform a magic trick.
I'm gonna take that complicated code and
I'm gonna simplify it.
And I'm gonna show you how we
can get the same behavior,
the exact same functionality.
Without all of that extra croft and
confusion.
Okay.
Now that's a tall order, but
I'm gonna perform this magic trick
in the next couple of minutes, okay.
And what I'm going towards is I
needed to come up with a name for
something to contrast with OO, with object
oriented with class oriented coding, and
I came up with this phrase OLOO.
Which stands for
objects linked to other objects
because in reality that's actually
all that we care about in JavaScript.
The only thing that we care
about is there's a B 1 object
linked to another object and
linked to another object.
That's the only thing that matters.
The constructors and
all the dot prototype references and
the new keyword,
all that other stuff is just distraction.
To get us at these three
objects linked to each other.
Should we just create those objects
without the distraction and
get the same benefits.
And that's what I'm going to do.
In fact, what I'm going to do
is derive over several slides
how we get to what I call OLOO style
code that is object only linked,
objects linked to other objects only.
How do we get to OLOO style code?
And the interim steps
are gonna look a little weird.
So, you gotta just bear with me.
But what I want you to do, you know how
magicians, the way they perform their
tricks is they distract you over here so
they can perform their trick over here.
I'm gonna do the reverse.
I'm gonna tell you to look for and
what I want you to keep your eye on is
that object, that object and that object.
Don't get distracted by
all the other stuff.
Pay only attention to the objects,
cuz they're the only things
we cared about anyway, okay?
The first thing I wanna do to simplify
this code is I need to get rid of any kind
of reference to a constructor,
like new Bar.
That's class oriented thinking.
It's more complex.
It's more mentally taxing.
We gotta get rid of it.
So this line 17, I'm gonna change line
17 to not deal with a new constructor.
Okay?
Ready?
Here we go.
Now line 17 has become two lines,
which temporarily is going to look worse,
but you just gotta bear with me
on these intermediate forms.
We now are using a utility
called object.create,
which I already showed you
before I make a b1 object
that is linked to the Bar prototype
object, which is what we want.
And then I temporarily have to manually
call that Bar function with b1
as my context.
Okay?
So temporarily this looks kind of ugly but
it'll get better.
At least we've gotten rid of the new
keyword; we're not doing class
instantiation anymore.
We're just making objects linked.
Okay?
And now I remind you that we
still have a b1 linked to
a Bar.prototype linked to a Foo.prototype.
This code does exactly the same thing
as the previous code, same capability.
Okay.
Now the next step of my magic trick is I
wanna get rid of any references to these
.prototypes that are here.
This .prototype,
gotta get rid of that reference.
All these .prototypes over here.
This function constructor,
I've gotta get rid of all that
cuz that's way too confusing.
Okay.
Everybody ready?
All right, now, I called it capital B
just because of consistency sake, but
it's not a constructor any more,
it's just an object.
We have a Bar object that we
can add methods directly to it,
there's no .prototype preferences or
anything, we're just putting
properties directly on objects.
And look down here,
look how much more simpler this got.
Cuz now all I do is say object.create bar.
I just link b1 directly to Bar.
Instead of linking it to a .prototype or
some constructor or
some other confusing thing,
I just link b1 directly to Bar.
So I use my little utility object
create to do my linkages, and
object create becomes
the hero of the party
because he does what we need without
all that other confusing crap going on.
And we still end up with b1 linked
to bar linked to foo.prototype.
Is everybody following so far?
Final step of the magic trick, okay?
I've got to get rid of all of these
references to foo.prototype and
function foo constructor.
Got to get rid of all of that.
Everybody ready?
Bam.
Now foo itself, is just an object.
That has methods directly on it.
Bar is just an object with
methods directly on it.
And b1 is just an object
that is linked to bar.
So we still have in the final tally,
a object,
linked to another object,
linked to another object.
We have all the same capability
as three slides ago.
The fact that they can
delegate to each other, and
the fact that we can setup multiple
delegations, and all of that stuff.
We have all the same capability, but what
we have now done is gotten a syntax that
has completely removed any relationship
to the class-oriented thinking.
These are just peer objects that delegate
to each other, that's all it is.
As a quick example, and I talk about this
in my book, This and Object Prototypes,
book that I've written, I talk about
all this stuff and as a quick example,
you think about a login controller and
an authentication controller.
Your login controller is a peer object
to your authentication controller.
It's not one is the parent and
one is the child.
They're peer objects.
One of them handles managing your login
form, and one of them handles making
AJAX calls to the server to find
out if the password was correct.
They're two peers to each other.
And one of them needs to
delegate to the other so
that the entire task of getting
you logged in can complete.
So the login controller delegates
to the authentication controller.
It's a different way of thinking.
Instead of orienting your code with
parents and children and overloading and
polymorphism and all that stuff that
you've been trained on for 20 years.
You think in terms of this simple
objects delegating to other objects.
Like B1 delegating to
bar delegating to foo.
As an example for instance you could
have [COUGH] foo as a general utility
object that a bunch of different
objects can delegate to.
And utility methods like loggers and
other things are, you delegate
to the utility object to use it.